README.md, before:

[中文](https://pnpm.io/zh/) |
[日本語](https://pnpm.io/ja/) |
[Italiano](https://pnpm.io/it/) |
[Русский](https://pnpm.io/ru/) |
[Français](https://pnpm.io/fr/)

![](https://i.imgur.com/qlW1eEG.png)

Fast, disk space efficient package manager:

* **Fast.** Up to 2x faster than the alternatives (see [benchmark](#benchmark)).
* **Efficient.** Files inside `node_modules` are linked from a single content-addressable storage.
* **[Great for monorepos](https://pnpm.io/workspaces).**
* **Strict.** A package can access only dependencies that are specified in its `package.json`.
* **Deterministic.** Has a lockfile called `pnpm-lock.yaml`.
* **Works as a Node.js version manager.** See [pnpm env use](https://pnpm.io/cli/env).
* **Works everywhere.** Supports Windows, Linux, and macOS.
* **Battle-tested.** Used in production by teams of [all sizes](https://pnpm.io/users) since 2016.
  
To quote the [Rush](https://rushjs.io/) team:

> Microsoft uses pnpm in Rush repos with hundreds of projects and hundreds of PRs per day, and we’ve found it to be very fast and reliable.

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/pnpm.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pnpm)
[![Join the chat at Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/731599538665553971.svg)](https://r.pnpm.io/chat)
[![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/pnpm/backers/badge.svg)](#backers)
[![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/pnpm/sponsors/badge.svg)](#sponsors)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/pnpmjs.svg?style=social&label=Follow)](https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=pnpmjs&region=follow_link)

## Sponsors

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="middle">
        <a href="https://bit.dev" target="_blank"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pnpm/pnpm.github.io/main/static/img/users/bit.svg" width="80"></a>
      </td>
      <td align="center" valign="middle">
        <a href="https://prisma.io" target="_blank"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pnpm/pnpm.github.io/main/static/img/users/prisma.svg" width="180"></a>
      </td>
      <td align="center" valign="middle">
        <a href="https://leniolabs.com" target="_blank"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pnpm/pnpm.github.io/main/static/img/users/leniolabs.jpg" width="80"></a>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Support this project by [becoming a sponsor](https://opencollective.com/pnpm#sponsor).

## Background

pnpm uses a content-addressable filesystem to store all files from all module directories on a disk.
When using npm or Yarn, if you have 100 projects using lodash, you will have 100 copies of lodash on disk.
With pnpm, lodash will be stored in a content-addressable storage, so:

1. If you depend on different versions of lodash, only the files that differ are added to the store.
  If lodash has 100 files, and a new version has a change only in one of those files,
  `pnpm update` will only add 1 new file to the storage.
1. All the files are saved in a single place on the disk. When packages are installed, their files are linked
  from that single place consuming no additional disk space. Linking is performed using either hard-links or reflinks (copy-on-write).

As a result, you save gigabytes of space on your disk and you have a lot faster installations!
If you'd like more details about the unique `node_modules` structure that pnpm creates and
why it works fine with the Node.js ecosystem, read this small article: [Flat node_modules is not the only way](https://pnpm.io/blog/2020/05/27/flat-node-modules-is-not-the-only-way).

💖 Like this project? Let people know with a [tweet](https://r.pnpm.io/tweet)

## Getting Started

- [Installation](https://pnpm.io/installation)
- [Usage](https://pnpm.io/pnpm-cli)
- [Frequently Asked Questions](https://pnpm.io/faq)
- [Chat](https://r.pnpm.io/chat)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/pnpmjs)

## Benchmark

pnpm is up to 2x faster than npm and Yarn classic. See all benchmarks [here](https://r.pnpm.io/benchmarks).

Benchmarks on an app with lots of dependencies:

![](https://pnpm.io/img/benchmarks/alotta-files.svg)

## Backers

Thank you to all our backers! [Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/pnpm#backer)

<a href="https://opencollective.com/pnpm#backers" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/pnpm/backers.svg?width=890"></a>

## Contributors

This project exists thanks to all the people who contribute. [Contribute](../../blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

<a href="../../graphs/contributors"><img src="https://opencollective.com/pnpm/contributors.svg?width=890&button=false" /></a>

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/pnpm/pnpm/blob/main/LICENSE)

Commit message:

docs(README): add message about Ukraine to the README

README.md, after:

> # 🇺🇦 UKRAINE NEEDS YOUR HELP NOW!
>
> I'm the creator of this project and I'm Ukrainian.
>
> **My country, Ukraine, [is being invaded by the Russian Federation, right now](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60504334)**. I've fled Kyiv and now I'm safe with my family in the western part of Ukraine. At least for now.
> Russia is hitting target all over my country by ballistic missiles.
>
> **Please, save me and help to save my country!**
>
> Ukrainian National Bank opened [an account to Raise Funds for Ukraine’s Armed Forces](https://bank.gov.ua/en/news/all/natsionalniy-bank-vidkriv-spetsrahunok-dlya-zboru-koshtiv-na-potrebi-armiyi):
>
> ```
> SWIFT Code NBU: NBUA UA UX
> JP MORGAN CHASE BANK, New York
> SWIFT Code: CHASUS33
> Account: 400807238
> 383 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10179, USA
> IBAN: UA843000010000000047330992708
> ```
>
> You can also donate to [charity supporting Ukrainian army](https://savelife.in.ua/en/donate/).
>
> **THANK YOU!**

[中文](https://pnpm.io/zh/) |
[日本語](https://pnpm.io/ja/) |
[Italiano](https://pnpm.io/it/) |
[Русский](https://pnpm.io/ru/) |
[Français](https://pnpm.io/fr/)

![](https://i.imgur.com/qlW1eEG.png)

Fast, disk space efficient package manager:

* **Fast.** Up to 2x faster than the alternatives (see [benchmark](#benchmark)).
* **Efficient.** Files inside `node_modules` are linked from a single content-addressable storage.
* **[Great for monorepos](https://pnpm.io/workspaces).**
* **Strict.** A package can access only dependencies that are specified in its `package.json`.
* **Deterministic.** Has a lockfile called `pnpm-lock.yaml`.
* **Works as a Node.js version manager.** See [pnpm env use](https://pnpm.io/cli/env).
* **Works everywhere.** Supports Windows, Linux, and macOS.
* **Battle-tested.** Used in production by teams of [all sizes](https://pnpm.io/users) since 2016.
  
To quote the [Rush](https://rushjs.io/) team:

> Microsoft uses pnpm in Rush repos with hundreds of projects and hundreds of PRs per day, and we’ve found it to be very fast and reliable.

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/pnpm.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pnpm)
[![Join the chat at Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/731599538665553971.svg)](https://r.pnpm.io/chat)
[![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/pnpm/backers/badge.svg)](#backers)
[![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/pnpm/sponsors/badge.svg)](#sponsors)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/pnpmjs.svg?style=social&label=Follow)](https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=pnpmjs&region=follow_link)

## Sponsors

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="middle">
        <a href="https://bit.dev" target="_blank"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pnpm/pnpm.github.io/main/static/img/users/bit.svg" width="80"></a>
      </td>
      <td align="center" valign="middle">
        <a href="https://prisma.io" target="_blank"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pnpm/pnpm.github.io/main/static/img/users/prisma.svg" width="180"></a>
      </td>
      <td align="center" valign="middle">
        <a href="https://leniolabs.com" target="_blank"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pnpm/pnpm.github.io/main/static/img/users/leniolabs.jpg" width="80"></a>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Support this project by [becoming a sponsor](https://opencollective.com/pnpm#sponsor).

## Background

pnpm uses a content-addressable filesystem to store all files from all module directories on a disk.
When using npm or Yarn, if you have 100 projects using lodash, you will have 100 copies of lodash on disk.
With pnpm, lodash will be stored in a content-addressable storage, so:

1. If you depend on different versions of lodash, only the files that differ are added to the store.
  If lodash has 100 files, and a new version has a change only in one of those files,
  `pnpm update` will only add 1 new file to the storage.
1. All the files are saved in a single place on the disk. When packages are installed, their files are linked
  from that single place consuming no additional disk space. Linking is performed using either hard-links or reflinks (copy-on-write).

As a result, you save gigabytes of space on your disk and you have a lot faster installations!
If you'd like more details about the unique `node_modules` structure that pnpm creates and
why it works fine with the Node.js ecosystem, read this small article: [Flat node_modules is not the only way](https://pnpm.io/blog/2020/05/27/flat-node-modules-is-not-the-only-way).

💖 Like this project? Let people know with a [tweet](https://r.pnpm.io/tweet)

## Getting Started

- [Installation](https://pnpm.io/installation)
- [Usage](https://pnpm.io/pnpm-cli)
- [Frequently Asked Questions](https://pnpm.io/faq)
- [Chat](https://r.pnpm.io/chat)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/pnpmjs)

## Benchmark

pnpm is up to 2x faster than npm and Yarn classic. See all benchmarks [here](https://r.pnpm.io/benchmarks).

Benchmarks on an app with lots of dependencies:

![](https://pnpm.io/img/benchmarks/alotta-files.svg)

## Backers

Thank you to all our backers! [Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/pnpm#backer)

<a href="https://opencollective.com/pnpm#backers" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/pnpm/backers.svg?width=890"></a>

## Contributors

This project exists thanks to all the people who contribute. [Contribute](../../blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

<a href="../../graphs/contributors"><img src="https://opencollective.com/pnpm/contributors.svg?width=890&button=false" /></a>

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/pnpm/pnpm/blob/main/LICENSE)
